this is my PC morning rally class and I
want to go over footwork you come on in
I don't bite it's very important it's
not judged even in obedience it's not
basically judged but how the dog
performs and help being able to help
your dog is very important there are a
few times where footwork specific
footwork must be performed and I'll go
into that generally it doesn't matter
how you turn or how you do about turns
but there are ways to do it better to
help your dog on a right turn I plant I
mean on the left turn I plant my left
foot and if the dog is heeling with me
we'll see it gives him a little bit of a
signal bring my right foot around with a
small step then I go forward
let's try it with the dog right left
turn you can see it becomes an extra
cute and obedience you can't talk to
your dog or give them any other signals
so this body language is very important
a right turn it a lot of people will do
a tea turn you're just making a tea with
your foot and go forward and I did that
a lot with my Chihuahua because she's
such a lagger but now I found that I'm
much more comfortable just doing a
diagonal plant step coming around and
taking a small step as I come out with
commas here we go right turn plant step
forward
begin it it's not judged unless the dog
you know what the dog does if they're
wagging or they're foraging or they're
bumping into you that will be much on
about turns I can to do a kind of a
double right turn plant plant and
forward plant plant and forward it gives
the dog time to get around me on the
right the dog has to go further around
so they've got to speed up on the left
that you turn it's kind of like a double
left turn and I try to stay in place so
I'm coming back on the same one get it
okay you can take little steps and go
around you need to keep moving you can't
stop and it shouldn't be military it
should be natural a left about turn I
pretty much do the left u-turn but the
dog goes around ready around and that
allows the dog around to catch up with
you on homes it's not as important in
rally as it is in obedience but give the
dog some help and I'll halt the judge
will say halt and I go one sit together
map turn hall 1 sit together
she's a little white but I practice it
halt 1 sit together and I tell the dog
to sit as I take that I do a one step a
plant step and together and tell the dog
to sit and if you count out loud which I
had to do for a year or two it becomes
very normal and the dog will hear the
judge in obedience say huh and then they
start thinking once it I know they'd
rather what step forward when footwork
is judged is on a pivot now you can use
any kind of footwork you want let me see
if I can get over here I make an X in
the ground I have to stay on this X our
paper plate care ones get in here about
I like to take little tiny steps to go
around right or left you've got to stay
on that paper plate if you're going like
this you're off the paper plate and that
will be an IP incorrect performance so
footwork is judge there on the hold
about turn right or left forward
it's a hold an immediate about turning
pervert so you can't be going like you
ready I didn't give you any clue did I
so it's halt sit and help your dog here
kill him let's go about turn and forward
about u-turn and forward so there the
footwork is important on the halt sit
side step right halt you must make a
straight step
to the side with me with the right foot
the dog moves with you
sit on the sit halt
turn right one step forward this is the
only exercise the dog doesn't move with
you so it's all the dog sits stay turn
right one step this is not a pivot it's
a step
he'll
call dog to heel good boy
on this you exercise description does
not say you have to take that step with
your right foot sit so some people
take the step with the left foot you
get and that's fine so I said there are
times when your footwork will be judged
and there are other times when it's not
judged but it's equally important
this is probably the most important
footwork of all and this is what I see
and this is what I do I know he'll what
was that instant lag the poor dog
doesn't have a clue now he should be
watching sit so you're going to tell the
dog you can also say their name Wally
he'll then you're going to step forward
it doesn't matter if you step forward on
your right or your left foot I started
doing it on my right foot because I had
gilja the Chihuahua and if you step out
on your left foot there immediately
lagging sit
so kill the dog to heal then take your
first step and make that first step a
half step so that it gives the dog time
to stand up and move with you